# Dispatcher Research Update

## Overview

Haven't touched this project in a while so doing some updates to get dependencies updated.

- Update dependencies
- Add Redis based map for handling ping responses
- Add support for SQS. Not going to remove the AMQP classes for now but not intending to use them
- Need to add more documentation. I remember the basics of how everything works. But I'm not sure where somethings are at the moment. Such as the map consulted for where to respond for ping responses for the http dispatcher. Though maybe that just doesn't exist yet and has just been something I've been thinking about adding.

## Notes

- I think after this I need to start moving this into an actual library and start adding tests.
- Be nice if I can figure out a better way to handle telemetry within the library as well. Right now the OpenTelemetry calls are built into the library. Should look into how to do a proper instrumentation library that works in the same way the the `ExpressInstrumentation` has been implemented.
- Still questioning the need for a Channel and the use of different function names other than `call`

## Getting the project up and running again

- Haven't run the project in a while. I think I may have deleted the docker volumes a while back. Need to see what's working and what isn't
- Looks like everything started up except for Loki
- May want to revisit the Grafana stack. It would be nice to be able to use a simpler file system for them rather than depending on Minio. I'm sure that's what needs to be setup at the moment.
- Setup Minio and ran a request. Everything seems to be working. Trace showed up in Grafana
- Actually being able to jump to a log entry may not be working correctly. Gonna worry about that one later.

## Moving Ping Event Handler to shared lib

- This function should be usable as a Handler for any Processor
  - Should be noted here that a Processor specifically deals with a Response
- Identical functions are used both in `public-web`'s `httpPingProcessor` and `ping-listener`'s `processor`
- While working on this I discovered the setting in VSCode: `typescript.preferGoToSourceDefinition` which results in going to the actual source Typescript file instead of jumping to the generated type declaration file. Very handy.
- Added the function to the shared lib and replaced in both `public-web` and `ping-listener` without issue.

## Expanding the dispatcher to work with Redis

- Starting off by examining the `EventRelayProcessor`
  - This works by determining a route for the received event and then creates a `PromiseChannel` for the route's endpoint and stores it to an event router. Finally returning the `Promise`. The router is used by another flow, which ultimately delivers an event to the `PromiseChannel` that resolves the originally returned `Promise`.
- The name `EventRelayProcessor` may need to change as I believe this new dispatcher is going to behave in a similar manner.
  - The http request will come in.
  - A route will need to be established for the event ID with the host it was received from.
  - When an event is ready to be delivered, the router will need to look up the host for the original event and create an http channel to the original host.
- Within the sample apps this will be replacing the `httpDispatcher` within `dispatcher` app. The `httpGateway` will need to be modified to register the event with the sending host before sending the request on to the `amqpDispatcher`
- Before adding the Redis element, I'll start by making this work with a Map.
- Examining how to best accomplish examining the request and storing the data to the router
  - One option would be to introduce a `wire tap` that can look at the request or the event received.
  - Considering utilizing an `EventEmitter`.
- `EventRouter` probably needs to change. Presently it's a Class rather than an interface. The `add` takes an `EventRoute` which can be a Channel, Dispatcher or Handler. Need to be able to dynamically build a channel based on information stored in Redis.

## Research: Adding support for node native Events

- `AbstractEventService` would need to extend `EventEmitter`
- Interfaces that would need to be updated
  - `EventChannel`
  - `EventDispatcher` - Though defined... I don't think I have any f these yet
  - `EventHandler`
  - `EventRoute` - Not actually an interface
  - `EventProcessor`

### Defining the events

This concept was taken from a [StackOverFlow Response](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39142858/declaring-events-in-a-typescript-class-which-extends-eventemitter)

```typescript
interface EventChannelEvents {
  'received': (event: Event) => void;
  'sent': (event: Event) => void;
}

declare interface EventChannel {
  on<U extends keyof EventChannelEvents>(
    event: U,
    listener: EventChannelEvents[U]
  ): this;

  emit<U extends keyof EventChannelEvents[U]>(
    event: U,
    ...args: Parameters<EventChannelEvents[U]>
  ): boolean;
}

class EventChannel extends EventEmitter {
  constructor() {
    super();
  }
}
```

- May also be worth investigating [tiny-typed-emitter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tiny-typed-emitter) which looks to have been created by the author of the response this was based on.
- Likely want an `EventListener` that can be passed to `on` and convert the passed arguments into a new `Event`

#### `EventChannel`

- `event:received` - `event: Event`
- `event:delivered` - `event: Event`, `target: EventHandler`

## Examining the Components

`ReturnType = Event | unknown | void`
`EventHandlerFn<T extends Event, R extends ReturnType> = (event: T) => Promise<R>`
`EventChannelFn = EventHandlerFn<T, void>`
`EventDispatcherFn = EventHandlerFn<T, void>`
`EventProcessorFn<T extends Event, R extends Event> = EventHandlerFn<T, R>`

- Based on the above... All but Channel and Dispatcher are distinct.
- Perhaps Channel should be a Dispatcher?
  - Channel is used in `NullChannel`, `PromiseChannel` and `SimpleChannel`.
  - Dispatcher has: `AmqpDispatcher` and `HttpDispatcher` ``
- Dispatchers seem like they could simply be channels.
## Idea to explore later

- Just got the idea for a pass through handler that can create a lock. The idea would be to have the component name and the id of the event be the lock name. This way if two instances of an app get the same event for some reason only a single one will process it. Need to look into inheriting a name from a parent component to make setup easy.
